Prof. Neeraj Kumar (SMIEEE) (2019, 2020, 2021 highly-cited researcher from WoS) is working as a Full Professor in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Thapar Institute of Engineering and Technology (Deemed to be University), Patiala (Pb.), India. He is also adjunct professor at King Abdul Aziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia and Newcastle University, UK. He has published more than 500 technical research papers in top-cited journals and conferences which are cited more than 54900 times from well-known researchers across the globe with current h-index of 125. He has guided many research scholars leading to Ph.D. and M.E./M.Tech. His research is supported by funding from various competitive agencies across the globe. His broad research areas are Green computing and Network management, IoT, Big Data Analytics, Deep learning and cyber-security. He has also edited/authored 10 books with International/National Publishers like IET, Springer, Elsevier, CRC.

He has secured research funding of around 1 Million Euro from Govt of India, and Industries in the area of smart grid, blockchain, Cyber-Security and network management. He is consultant In various industry and govt. sponsored projects in China, Saudi Arabia and Europe. He has executed various international projects in Austria, Poland, Saudi Arabia, Europe and China. He has supervised more than 15 Ph.D. and 25 M.E./M.Tech. students.

He is serving as editors of ACM Computing Survey, IEEE Transactions on Sustainable Computing, IEEE TNSM, Elsevier Computer Communication, Wiley International Journal of Communication Systems. Also, he has organized various special issues of journals of repute from IEEE, Elsevier, Springer. He has been a workshop chair at IEEE Globecom 2018, IEEE Infocom 2020 and IEEE ICC 2020 and track chair of Security and privacy of IEEE MSN 2020. He is also TPC Chair and member for various International conferences such as IEEE MASS 2020, IEEE MSN2020. He has won the best papers award from IEEE Systems Journal in 2018, in 2020, and IEEE ICC 2018, Kansas-city in 2018. He has also won best paper award from Elsevier JNCA in 2021 and IEEE Comsoc IWCMC 2021. He has won the outstanding leadership award from IEEE Trustcom in 2021. Moreover, He won the best researcher award from parent organization every year from last eight consecutive years.
